# swesolo Local Ecosystem
The ecosystem is made up of a large number of _swesolon_'s. A swesolon represents a particle in the swesolo universe. They could be thought of as atoms in our universe only with a possibly larger degree of diversity (if that could help the cause). They all have a few existential properties which could be analogous to some of the physical quantities that we attribute to physical particles (position, velocity, mass, charge, etc). The physics that governs the swesolo universe, however, will be different from the physics of our universe even though its laws are inspired by our own physical universe. Given these properties, each swesolon can affect and be affected by a nearby swesolon. Proximity could be established through comparison of some of the properties of the swesolons (such as _position_).
On the first run of the ecosystem, it allocates a large area of memory and populates it with an array of swesolons. Then, it enters a loop, through each iteration of which, all the existing swesolons are made to interact with their close neighbours. The loop runs indefinitely for the length of the runtime. To retain the ecosystem state across multiple runs, periodically, current state of all the existing swesolons are written to persistent storage. This ecosystem persistence is also performed when the ecosystem is shut down gracefully. The next time that that ecosystem runs, it loads the ecosystem from the persistent storage rather than creating it from scratch.
These ongoing interactions between swesolon particles will hopefully lead to clusters of them to be formed. They might evolve into clear systems; systems that interact with each other through exchange of swesolons, etc. These systems will hopefully evolve to follow a purpose. If the purpose of a system involves self-preservation and survival, we might call it a living organism. This is also true of systems that reproduce themselves or create slightly modified or evolved versions of themselves.